>> GREEKS RIGHT NOW HAVE A VERY
DIFFICULT CHOICE TO MAKE.
>> Woodruff: A REFERDUM ENLOOMS
OVER A MOUNTAIN OF UNPAYABLE
DEBT IN GREECE-- A COUNTRY
DIVIDED OVER EUROPE'S BAILOUT
DEAL.
> TH>IS IS A COUNTRY OF A
HISTORY TURNING IN ON ITSELF AND
THE LEVELS OF PAY TRIZZISM ON
THE START OF THE WAR.
>> Woodruff: GOOD EVENING ON
THIS FOURTH OF JULY WEEKEND.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
ALSO AHEAD, IT'S FRIDAY, MARK
SHIELDS AND DAVID BROOKS ANALYZE
THE WEEK'S NEWS.
PLUS, THE U.S. FACES OFF AGAINST
JAPAN.
A PREVIEW TO THE FINAL GAME OF
SOCCER'S WOMEN'S WORLD CUP ON
SUNDAY WITH THE AMERICANS HOPING
TO BRING HOME A WIN.
>> USA HAS BEEN WAITING FOR
YEARS TO REVENGE THE LOSS THAT
WAS SO HEART BREAKING TO THEM
AGAINST JAPAN.
AND SO NOW THEY HAVE THIS
OPPORTUNITY.
>> Woodruff: THOSE ARE SOME OF
THE STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Woodruff: THE HEAVIEST
FIGHTING IN MONTHS RAGED IN THE
NORTHERN SYRIAN CITY OF ALEPPO
TODAY AS GOVERNMENT FORCETRIS ED
TO REPEL A COORDINATED ATTACK BY
REBELS.
MORE THAN A DOZEN ISLAMIC
MILITANT GROUPS-- INCLUDING AL-
QAEDA'S AFFILIATE IN SYRIA--
LAUNCHED THE ASSAULT ON
GOVERNMENT POSITIONS OVERNIGHT.
PRESIDENT BASHAR AL-ASSAD'S
TROOPS CALLED IN AIR STRIKES
THAT KILLED AT LEAST 35 REBEL
FIGHTERS.
ELSEWHERE, ISLAMIC STATE-
AFFILIATED FIGHTERS IN EGYPT
CLAIMED THEY FIRED THREE ROCKETS
INTO SOUTHERN ISRAEL.
ISRAELI OFFICIALS ACKNOWLEDGED
ROCKET REMNANTS WERE FOUND, BUT
DID NOT CONFIRM THEIR ORIGINS.
NO INJURIES WERE REPORTED.
AETNA ANNOUNCED TODAY IT'S
BUYING RIVAL HEALTH INSURER
HUMANA FOR $37 BILLION.
IF APPROVED, THE DEAL WOULD MAKE
AETNA THE SECOND-LARGEST HEALTH
INSURANCE COMPANY IN THE U.S.,
BEHIND UNITED HEALTH.
THAT WOULD GIVE IT MORE POWER TO
NEGOTIATE PRICES UNDER PRESIDENT
OBAMA'S HEALTH CARE OVERHAUL.
IT WOULD ALSO MEAN AETNA WOULD
OWN A LARGER CHUNK OF THE
RAPIDLY-GROWING MEDICARE
BUSINESS.
RESIDENTS IN MARYVILLE,
TENNESSEE WERE ALLOWED HOME
TODAY, A DAY AND A HALF AFTER A
FREIGHT TRAIN WITH TOXIC
CHEMICALS DERAILED AND CAUGHT
FIRE.
SOME 5,000 PEOPLE HAD BEEN
EVACUATED.
THE TRAIN BURNED THROUGHOUT THE
DAY YESTERDAY.
IT WAS CARRYING MATERIAL USED TO
MAKE PLASTIC, THAT'S DANGEROUS
IF INHALED.
AUTHORITIES ARE EXAMINING THE
TRAIN'S BLACK BOX FOR CLUES AS
TO WHAT CAUSED THE ACCIDENT.
PEOPLE AROUND BRITAIN TODAY
HONORED THE VICTIMS OF THE
DEADLY TERROR ATTACK AT A
TUNISIAN BEACH.
ISLAMIC EXTREMIST IN LAST WEEK'S
RAMPAGE WERE BRITISH.
QUEEN ELIZABETH AND PRIME
MINISTER DAVID CAMERON BOTH
PARTICIPATED IN MOMENTS OF
SILENCE IN THE U.K., WHILE THE
BRITISH AMBASSADOR TO TUNISIA
LAID A WREATH AT THE SITE OF THE
ATTACK.
>> I THINK WE ALL LIVE UNDER THE
THREAT OF TERRORISM NOW.
AND I THINK THAT THE SYNDROME
WE'VE SEEN IT ELSEWHERE NOT JUST
IN TUNISIA.
BUT OF COURSE THAT'S HOW WE ARE
HERE TRYING TO MAKE SURE WE HAVE
THE BEST SECURITY POSSIBLE AND A
GREAT COMMITMENT FROM THE
TUNISIANS TO MAKE SURE THEY HAVE
THAT SECURITY IN PLACE.
>> Woodruff: THE GUNMAN IN THE
TUNISIA RAMPAGE WAS ULTIMATELY
KILLED BY POLICE.
.HE ISLAMIC STATE CLAIMED
A RUSSIAN SOYUZ ROCKET BOUNDOR F
THE INTERNATIONAL SPACE STATION
SUCCESSFULLY LIFTED OFF FROM
KAZAKHSTAN TODAY.
THE UNPILOTED SPACECRAFT IS
FERRYING FOOD, WATER, OXYGEN,
AND OTHER SUPPLIES TO THE
ORBITING LABORATORY.
THE LAUNCH FOLLOWS THREE
UNSUCCESSFUL RE-SUPPLY MISSIONS,
INCLUDING THE SPACE-X ROCKET
THAT EXPLODED SHORTLY AFTER
LIFTOFF SUNDAY.
STILL TO COME OTHE N NEWSHOUR:
A DIVIDED GREECE PREPARES TO
VOTE THIS WEEKEND ON ITS
ECONOMIC FUTURE, TENSION OVER
SECURITY CONCERNS OVER THIS
OLIDHAY WEEKEND, MARK SHIELDS
AND DAVID BROOKS ANALYZE THE
WEEK'S NEWS IN POLITICS, THE
AMERICAN WOMEN HEADING INTO THE
FINALS IN THE WORLD CUP, WHY A
CLASSIC SONG HITS A SPIRITUAL
AND EMOTIONAL CHORD, A NEW LOOK
AT FOUR MEN WHO HELPED SHAPE THE
NATION AND THE FATHER-SON DUO
BEHIND A VERY AMERICAN
TRADITION.
GREECE IS BRACING ITSELF FOR AN
UNCERTAIN FUTURE AS VOTERS
PREPARE TO GO TO THE POLLS THIS
SUNDAY TO SAY YES OR NO TO A
BAILOUT PACKAGE WITH STRICT
CONDITIONS.
THE LATEST SURVEYS SHOW THE
COUNTRY IS ALMOST EVENLY
DIVIDED.
AND TODAY, GREEK PRIME MINISTER
ALEXIS TSIPRAS URGED VOTERS TO
SAY "NO" TO WHAT HE SAID
AMOUNTED TO BLACKMAIL FROM THE
EUROPEAN UNION AND THE
INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND.
SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT MALCOLM
BRABANT BEGINS OUR COVERAGE FROM
ATHENS.
>> Reporter: TONIGHT'S "NO"
RALLY BEGAN WITH CLASHES AT THE
BOTTOM OF CONSTITUTION SQUARE.
ANARCHISTS WHO ARE FREQUENTLY
INVOLVED IN STREET BATTLES WITH
THE POLICE.
TEAR GAS ROUNDS WERE FIRED BY
THE POLICE AS THEY RETREATED.
THIS WAS A MINOR CONFRONTATION
IN COMPARISON TO OTHERS THAT
HAVE HAPPENED IN FIVE YEARS OF
AUSTERITY.
ONE OLD MAN BERATED THE POLICE
AS THEY BACKED AWAY.
THE POLICE ME ONADE ARREST.
IN ATHENS MARKET DISTRICT, THE
DAY BEGAN WITH A STRUGGLE TO
EARN A LIVING.
GREEKS ARE CAUGHT BETWEEN A ROCK
AND A HARD PLACE AS THEY TRY TO
DECIDE WHICH WAY TO VOTE IN
SUNDAY'S REFERENDUM.
>> NO.
>> ALL GREECE SHOULD VOTE YES.
>> MY OPINION IS NO.
>> NO, NO. NO.
>> YES, YES!
>> I VOTE NO, BECAUSE I WANT TO
BE PROUD OF MYSELF.
IT'S A DIFFICULT VOTE.
AND I THINK THAT NOW WE GIVE US
HOPE FOR THE FUTURE AND FOR OUR
CHILDREN.
>> BIG YES.
YES.
>> Reporter: ON EITHER SIDE OF
THE DIVIDE, CONSTANTINE
ALEXANDER, THE EXECUTIVE
CHAIRMAN OF THE BALKAN ECONOMIC
FORUM, AN INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT, AND A
BUTCHER FROM THE ATHENS MEAT
MARKET.
>> I KNOW THAT GREEKS RIGHT NOW
HAVE A DIFFICULT CHOICE TO MAKE.
THEY HAVE A CHOICE BETWEEN AN
AUSTERITY PROGRAM THAT WILL BE
VERY HARD FOR THEM FOR SEVERAL
YEARS, OR ACTUALLY GOING
BANKRUPT AND FACING A SITUATION
THAT WE HAVEN'T SEEN SINCE THE
GREAT DEPRESSION.
SO THE CHOICES ARE NOT GOOD BUT
ONE OF THEM IS BETTER THAN THE
OTHER.
I LEARNED FROM NELSON MANDELA OF
SOUTH AFRICA THAT IF YOU WANT TO
FAST, GO ALONE, IF YOU WANT TO
GO FAR, GO TOGETHER.
>> Reporter: GREEK-AMERICAN
GEORGE GILSON, A JOURNALIST WHO
COVERED GREECE FOR YEARS, IS A
VICTIM OF THE CRISIS.
HIS NEWSPAPER WENT UNDER TWO
YEARS AGO AND HE'S BEEN
UNEMPLOYED EVER SINCE.
TO MAKE MONEY, HE SCOURS JUNK
SHOPS LOOKING FOR HIDDEN
TREASURES.
>> I WOULD NOT LIKE WITH THAT
YES VOTE TO LEGITIMATE FIVE
YEARS OF INHUMAN, PUNITIVE,
VINDICTIVE POLICY, THAT HAS
NOTHING TO DO WITH EUROPE, THAT
HAS NOTHING TO DO WITH SOUND
ECONOMIC POLICY, AND HAS NOTHING
TO DO WITH GETTING GREECE OUT OF
THIS CRISIS.
>> Reporter: THE "NO" OR "OXI"
CAMPAIGN'S BANNERS ARE MOST
PROMINENT, ESPECIALLY AT THE
ATHENS POLYTECHNIC, WHICH IS A
SYMBOL OF NATIONAL RESISTANCE TO
OPPRESSION.
BUT CENTER RIGHT LAWMAKER HARRY
THEOCHARI, GREECE'S FORMER CHIEF
TAX EVASION INVESTIGATOR,
BELIEVES PRIME MINISTER ALEXIS
TSIPRAS IS MISLEADING THE
COUNTRY.
>> I BELIEVE THAT THIS IS THEIR
PLAN A, TO GO AGAINST EUROPE AND
TAKE OUR BANKING SYSTEM AWAY
FROM THE EURO SYSTEM AND CHANGE
CURRENCY TOWARDS THE DRACHMA.
BUT THAT'S GOING TO BE VERY,
VERY PAINFUL SEVERANCE.
IT'S GOING TO BE A VERY HUGE
THAT MAIN SUBWAY STATION, THE
CROWDS WERE JAM PACKED CHANTING
NO.
THE SAME TROOPS IN THE RALLY
THEY HELD A GATHERING IN A LAST
DITCH ATTEMPT TO SWAY VOTERS.
>> THERE ARE MANY GREEKS WORRIED
ABOUT THE DEBTS OF DIVISION OF
AMERICA AS A RESULT OF THIS
REFERENDUM.
THIS IS A COUNTRY WHERE THE
HISTORY IS TURNING IN ON ITSELF
AND SOME PEOPLE ARE AFRAID THE
LEVELS OF HATRED MAY REACH THOSE
THAT AFFECTED THOSE AT THE START
OF THE CIVIL WAR 70 YEARS AGO.
OTHERS ARE CONCERNED THERE MIGHT
POSSIBLY BE SOCIAL UNREST AND
WE'VE SEEN AN EXAMPLE OF THAT
TONIGHT.
>> JUDY.
>> Woodruff: THANKS, MALCOLM.
LET'S LOOK AT WHAT SUNDAY'S VOTE
COULD TRIGGER WITH TWO DIFFERENT
VIEWS: JACOB KIRKEGAARD IS WITH
THE PETERSON INSTITUTE FOR
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMICS AND MARK
WEISBROT IS CO-DIRECTOR OF THE
CENTER FOR ECONOMIC AND POLICY
RESEARCH.
WE WELCOME YOU BOTH.
YOU JUST SAW AGAIN JUST HOW
DIVIDED THE GREEK PEOPLE ARE.
JACOB KIRKEGAARD, TO YOU FIRST.
WHAT'S BETTER FOR GREEK'S FUTURE
A YES OR NO VOTE.
>> IN MY OPINION THERE'S NO
DOUBT THEY SHOULD VOTE YES.
I THINK WE NEED TO MAKE CLEAR
THIS IS NOT A VOTE ABOUT
AUSTERITY OR NOT.
THIS IS ABOUT REALLY SENDING
WHAT IS NOW AN ACCELERATING
NATIONAL EMERGENCY IN GREECE
WHERE YOU ARE STARTING TO SEE
FOOD SHORTAGES, YOU'RE STARTING
TO SEE MEDICAL SUPPLIES RUN LOW.
AND THE BANKING SYSTEM IS
TEETERING ON THE BRINK OF SLAPS
AND WHICH HAS NOW BEEN CLOSED
FOR A WEEK.
IF THESE NO YES VOTE, THEN
BANKING SYSTEM WILL IN MY
OPINION SLIDE INTO A COMPLETE
COLLAPSE.
WE WILL FACE SIGNIFICANT DEPOSIT
OF BAILING AND OTHER THINGS.
THIS IS REALLY ABOUT SAVING THE
GREEK ECONOMY AND THEREFORE THE
FUTURE FOR THE GREEK PEOPLE.
>> Woodruff: MARK WEISBROT
WHAT SHOULD THE PEOPLE OF GREECE
DO.
>> I WOULD GO FOR A NO VOLT
BECAUSE YOU HAVE TO LOOK AT WHO
IS RESPONSIBLE FOR THIS MESS,
WHO IS RESPONSIBLE FOR SIX YEARS
OF DEPRESSION.
WHO IS RESPONSIBLE FOR THE BANKS
CLOSING RIGHT NOW.
IT'S BECAUSE THE EUROPEAN
CENTRAL BANK DECIDED LAST SUNDAY
TO LIMIT THE AMOUNT OF EMERGENCY
LIQUIDITY ASSISTANCE SO THAT THE
BANKS WOULDN'T HAVE ENOUGH MONEY
TO OPEN.
AND THEY DID THIS VERY
DELIBERATELY I THINK TO
INTIMIDATE THE VOTERS INTO
VOTING YES.
EVERYTHING THAT COMES OUT OF THE
MOUTHS OF THE EUROPEAN OFFICIALS
RIGHT NOW IS TRYING TO SCARE AND
INTIMIDATE PEOPLE TO MAKE THEM
FEEL THIS PAIN AND TELL THEM
THIS IS WHAT YOU'RE GOING TO GET
IF YOU VOTE NO.
IF YOUR GOVERNMENT IS AWE DAY
MUST ENOUGH TO INSIST AND AROUSE
THE GREEK ECONOMY TO RECOVER AND
UNEMPLOYMENT TO COME DOWN.
THAT'S REALLY ALL THEY'VE BEEN
ASKING FOR AND THE EUROPEAN
AUTHORITIES HAVE BEEN STUB BURN
AND PRETTY MEAN ABOUT IT.
>> Woodruff: WHAT ABOUT THAT,
THE CENTRAL BANK AND EUROPEANS
ARE ASKING TOO MUCH OF THE GREEK
PEOPLE.
>> THERE'S NO DOUBT GREECE HAS
BEEN THROUGH A TREMENDOUS
ECONOMIC CRISES IN THE LAST FIVE
YEARS.
THERE'S ALSO NO DOUBT THAT THIS
HAS BEEN ASSOCIATED DIRECTLY
WITH THE IMF TROIKA PROGRAM BUT
WE HAVE TO LOOK AT THE STARTING
POINT OF THIS PROGRAM.
IN 2010 WHEN THE BAILOUT WAS
INITIALLY LAUNCHED, GREECE HAD A
PRIMARY DEFICIT OF MORE THAN 10%
OF GDP.
IF YOU DIDN'T HAVE A BAILOUT
THERE WOULD BE EVEN GREATER
AMOUNTS OF AUSTERITY AT THIS
POINT.
THE OTHER THING I WOULD
HIGHLIGHT IS THAT FROM THE
PERSPECTIVE OF THE EUROPEANS,
YOU CANNOT EXPECT TAXPAYERS TO
POUR MONEY INTO GREECE.
THAT'S NOT THE WAY BAILOUTS WILL
WORK OR THE EUROPEAN BAILOUT
WILL WORK EITHER.
NO MATTER WHAT THE GREEK VOTERS
CHOOSE ON SUNDAY WE NEED TO
RECOGNIZE THAT EUROPEAN VOTERS
ELSEWHERE IN THE EURO ZONE THEY
HAVE AN EQUALLY LEGITIMATE
DEMOCRATLY RIGHT TO SAY NO TO
CONTINUING PAYMENTS TO GREECE.
UNFORTUNATELY I THINK THAT'S
WHAT MAY WELL HAPPEN.
>> Woodruff: MARK WEISBROT,
WHAT ABOUT HIS EARLIER POINT
THAT THE REST OF EUROPE CANNOT
BE EXPECTED TO CONTINUE TO BAIL
OUT AND SUPPORT A GREEK ECONOMY
THAT HASN'T TIGHTENED ITS OWN
BELT.
>> WELL THEY HAVE TIGHTENED
THEIR BELT.
THEY HAD SIX YEARS OF REPRESSION
THEY'VE GOT 26% OF UNEMPLOYMENT,
THEY'VE GOT 60% EUROPE OZONE
EMPLOYMENT.
THEY'VE CUT THEIR IMPORTS BY
36%.
ONE OF THE BIGGEST ADJUSTMENTS
IN THE WORLD.
LAST YEAR THEY HAD THE LARGEST
CYCLICAL ADJUSTED PRIMARY BUDGET
SURPLUS IN EUROPE.
SO THEY'VE DONE THE ADJUSTMENT.
THEY'VE GONE THROUGH HELL.
AND WHERE IS THE LIGHT AT THE
END OF THE TUNNEL.
THE EUROPEAN AUTHORITIES ARE NOT
OFFERING ANYTHING.
IT'S BECOMING MORE AND MORE
CLEAR ACTUALLY, AND I'VE BEEN
WRITING ABOUT THIS FOR A WHILE,
THAT THE REAL GOAL OF THESE
AUTHORITIES IS TO REALLY GET RID
OF THE GREEK GOVERNMENT.
THAT'S WHAT THEY'RE TRYING TO DO
AND THAT'S WHY THEY WON'T ALLOW
THE ECONOMY TO RECOVER SO FAR.
AND THEY'RE THE ONES INFLICTING
THE DAMAGE, OKAY.
IT'S NOT THE GREEK PEOPLE THAT
ARE RESPONSIBLE THE BANK CLOSURE
RIGHT NOW.
OR FOR THE RECESSION GOING ON
THIS LONG.
YOU KNOW, ONE WAY YOU CAN SEE
IT --
>> Woodruff: LET ME JUST GET
JACOB KIRKEGAARD TO RESPOND TO
WHAT YOU JUST SAID.
NO LIGHT AT THE END OF THE
TUNNEL.
THAT THE EUROPEAN UNION, THE
INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND JUST
KEEPS ON ASKING MORE AND MORE
AND MORE.
>> THE LIGHT TEND OF THE TUNNEL,
I MEAN THE EUROPEANS HAVE
ALREADY RESTRUCTURED EXISTING
GREEK DEBT AT LEAST THREE TIMES
AND IT'S VERY CLEAR THEY WILL
HAVE TO DO SO AGAIN.
THERE'S NO DOUBT THAT EVERYONE
IN EUROPE INCLUDING GERMANY
RECOGNIZES THAT THE MONEY LENGTH
TO GREECE WILL NOT BE REPAID AS
THEY ARE CURRENTLY STRUCTURED.
RESTRUCTURING WILL HAVE TO
HAPPEN.
THE QUESTION IS WHETHER OR NOT
YOU WANT AN UNCONDITIONAL
RESTRUCTURING, WHETHER YOU WANT
A RESTRUCTURING BASED ON A GREEK
ECONOMY THAT ACTUALLY HAS A
CHANCE TO GROW AFTERWARDS.
>> GROW NOW.
THE EUROPEAN BANKS HAVE PUSHED
THE RECESSION BACK THIS YEAR AND
THEY STARTED DOING THAT TEN DAYS
AFTER ELECTION.
THEY DIDN'T HAVE TO DO THAT.
THE COUNTRY WAS GOING TO GROW BY
TO.5% THIS YEAR.
YOU HAVE PEOPLE TRYING TO BLAME
THE GREEK GOVERNMENT AND THAT'S
WHAT THE REFERENDUM IS ABOUT.
WHOSE FAULT IS IT AND WHAT WILL
THEY GET OUT OF THE RESETTLE
MOST ECONOMISTS KNOW THESE
ECONOMIES HAVE FAILED.
THEY FAILED IN EUROPE.
EUROPE HAS TWICE THE
UNEMPLOYMENT THAT WE DO.
WHY IS THAT?
BECAUSE THEIR CENTRAL BANK
DIDN'T DO ITS JOB.
THAT'S THE DIFFERENCE.
>> Woodruff: DO YOU WANT TO
RESPOND.
>> I WOULD JUST SAY IT IS
CERTAINLY THE CASE THAT GREECE
WAS ON TRACK IN LATE 2014.
IF YOU READ THE RECENT REPORT
THAT CAME OUT ON FRIDAY, THAT'S
WHAT IT SAID.
GREECE WAS ON TRACK TO GROW AND
THEN THIS GOVERNMENT WAS
ELECTED, SURROUNDED WITH
SIGNIFICANT POLITICAL
UNCERTAINTY AND PROMISED TO BLOW
UP THE PROGRAM AS IT EXISTED.
GREECE WAS ON TRACK IN 2014 AND
IT WASN'T THE EUROPEANS.
IT'S THIS GOVERNMENT IN GREECE
THAT DECIDED TO TAKE EVERYTHING
OFF TRACK.
>> Woodruff: THERE'S MUCH
MORE TO DISCUSS HERE BUT WE'RE
GOING TO WATCH THAT VOTE ON
SUNDAY AND CERTAINLY BE
REPORTING ON THE AFTERMATH
AFTERWARDS.
WE'RE GOING TO THANK YOU BOTH
FOR NOW.
JACOB KIRKEGAARD, MARK WEISBROT.
THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: AS WE HEAD INTO THE
JULY 4TH WEEKEND, MANY LAW
ENFORCEMENT AND SECURITY
OFFICIALS ACROSS THE U.S. ARE ON
A HEIGHTENED STATE OF ALERT.
HARI SREENIVASAN HAS THAT STORY.
>> Sreenivasan: THANKS, JUDY.
SO WHAT'S BEHIND THE INCREASED
STATE OF READINESS?
FOR THAT WE TURN TO DANIEL
BENJAMIN, FORMER COORDINATOR FOR
COUNTER TERRORISM AT THE STATE
DEPARTMENT DURING THE FIRST TERM
OF THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION.
HE'S NOW A PROFESSOR AT
DARTMOUTH COLLEGE AND HE JOINS
US FROM NEW HAMPSHIRE.
WE KIND OF GET MIXED SIGNALS
HERE.
THE DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND
SECURITY, FBI SAY TO EVERYONE,
BE INCREASINGLY VIGILANT OVER
THIS HOLIDAY WEEKEND.
YET THEY AREN'T SAYING THER A
SPECIFIC THREAT.
>> THAT'S CORRECT.
FIRST THEY'RE NOT SAYING IT TO
EVERYONE, THEY'RE SAYING IT TO
LAW ENFORCEMENT.
IF YOU WANTED TO COMPARE THIS TO
THE OLD DAYS, THIS WOULDN'T BE
ACTUALLY A CHANGE COLOR IN THE
COLOR CODED SCHEME THAT WE USED
TO HAVE.
IT'S SORT OF AN ALERT TO
AUTHORITIES TO BE VIGILANT, TO
BE CAUTIOUS TO MAKE SURE THEY
ARE WELL STAFFED AND LOOK INTO
PEOPLE OF INTEREST IN CASE
THEY'RE TRACKING ANYONE.
THEY DO SAY THEY DO NOT HAVE ANY
CREDIBLE INTELLIGENCE ON
PARTICULAR PLOTTING AND IN FACT
TO DATE THERE'S BEEN NO ANNOUNCE
TO ANY CREDIBLE INTELLIGENCE ON
PLOTTING BY ISIS IN PARTICULAR
AGAINST THE UNITED STATES.
BUT BECAUSE OF THE INCREASED
INCIDENCE OF WHAT HAVE BEEN
CALLED LONE WOLF ATTACKS, PEOPLE
WHO WISH TO ACT OUT, WANT TO
TEAR UP OUR OWN ATTACK TO SHOW
THEIR COMMON CAUSE WITH ISIS, I
THINK THERE'S A GREATER CONCERN
THIS TIME AROUND THAN MOST
TIMES.
THAT IS TO SAY THERE'S A GREATER
CHANCE SOMEONE WILL TRY TO DO
SOMETHING THAT HAS BEEN THE CASE
IN THE PAST.
>> Sreenivasan: RIGHT.
SPEAKING OF PROBABILITIES,
THERE'S A CHANCE SOMEBODY IS
KILLED IN A DRUNKING ACCIDENT
OVER THE 4TH OF JULY WEEKEND
THAN KILLED BY AN ISIS FIGHTER.
>> TECHNICALLY SPEAKING THAT'S A
GREATER CHANCE.
>> Sreenivasan: IS THIS
CIRCUMSTANTIAL?
IS THIS THE MONTH OF RAMADAN, A
SERIES OF THE ATTACKS THAT
HAPPENED IN TUNISIA AND OTHER
PLACES THEY'RE TRYING TO WARN
LAW ENFORCEMENT INTEREST.
>> THAT'S CERTAINLY PART OF IT.
IT'S IMPORTANT TO RECALL THAT AT
THE BEGINNING OF RAMADAN AND
ISIS SPOKESMAN CALLED FOR PEOPLE
ESSENTIALLY TO CARRY OUT
INDEPENDENT ACTS, INDEPENDENTHA.
AND WE DID SEE THE ATTACKS IN
KUWAIT IN TUNISIA AND IN FRANCE
JUST A FEW DAYS AGO.
THOSE LIKELY WERE NOT
COORDINATED.
IT'S POSSIBLE THE ONE IN KUWAIT
WAS A REAL ISIS ATTACK, PERHAPS
AN ISIS GROUP IN SAUDI ARABIA.
THE ONCE IN FRANCE SEEMS TO BE
COMPLETELY INDEPENDENT WITHOUT
ANY OUTSIDE COORDINATION.
ALTHOUGH IT'S OF COURSE EARLY
DAYS IN THE INVESTIGATION.
>> Sreenivasan: IS THE
CONCERN HERE ABOUT SOMEONE GOING
OVERSEAS, BEING TRAINED BY ISIS
AND COMING BACK OR SOMEONE WHO
IS HERE SORT OF HOME GROWN IN
THE UNITED STATES AND INSPIRED
BY CARRY OUT AN ACT OF VIOLENCE?
>> BOTH ARE CONCERNED, BUT JUST
AS AN EMPIRICAL MATTER, PEOPLE
WHO ARE JUST HERE HAVE NEVER
GONE ABROAD, HAVE BEEN THE ONES
WHO HAVE BEEN MOST ACTIVE IN THE
UNITED STATES, AND IN WESTERN
EUROPE.
WE'VE ONLY HAD ONE CASE THAT I'M
AWARE OF WHERE SOMEONE WHO HAD
BEEN IN SYRIA, HAD BEEN INVOLVED
IN FIGHTING CAME BACK AND
CARRIED OUT AN ATTACK THAT WAS
IN BRUSSELS AT A JEWISH MUSEUM.
BUT MOST OF THE ACTIVITY HAS
BEEN BY PEOPLE WHO ARE MOTIVATED
TO SHOW THAT THEY TOO ARE PART
OF THE CAUS
>> Sreenivasan: ALL RIGHT,
DANIEL BENJAMIN FROM DARTMOUTH
COLLEGE.
THANKS SO MUCH.
>> MY PLEASURE.
>> Woodruff: AND AS WE DO EVERY
FRIDAY, WE TURN TO THE ANALYSIS
OF SHIELDS AND BROOKS.
THAT'S SYNDICATED COLUMNIST MARK
SHIELDS AND "NEW YORK TIMES"
COLUMNIST DAVID BROOKS, WHO
JOINS US TODAY FROM ASPEN,
COLORADO.
SO GENTLEMEN, THE SUPREME COURT,
I THINK YOU COULD SAY IT WENT
OUT WITH A BANK THIS WEEK,
DAVID, ISSUING HISTORIC
DECISIONS ON EVERYTHING FROM
SAME SEX MARRIAGE TO THE
PRESIDENT'S HEALTHCARE LAW, MUCH
MORE.
AND WITH SOME INTERESTING
DIVISIONS AMONG THE
CONSERVATIVES.
WHAT HAVE WE LEARNED ABOUT THE
COURT, DO YOU THINK FROM THIS
SESSION, AND HOWL OF AN ISSUE IS
IT GOING TO BE ON THE CAMPAIGN
TRAIL?
>> THE INTERESTING ONE TO ME IS
THE SAME SEX MARRIAGE DECISION
WHICH HIT A LOT OF SOCIAL
CONSERVATIVES EXTREMELY HARD.
A GREAT SEDGES OF FEAR THEY WILL
BE LABELED AS BIG IT'S, THE
CULTURE THEY'VE BEEN FIGHTING IS
ONE THEY LOST.
I'M INTERESTED HOW THEY
REACT.
A LOT OF SOCIAL CONSERVATIVES
HAVE BEEN FIGHTING A SOCIAL WAR
AROUND CONTRACEPTION, GAY
MARRIAGE AND OTHER MEASURES
HAVING TO DO WITH SEXUAL
ACTIVITY.
I DO THINK THAT'S NOT THE FIGHT
THEY'RE GOING TO WIN ANYMORE.
THE COUNTRY IS MOVING PRETTY FAR
TO THE LEFT ON THAT.
I WOULD LIKE TO SEE SOCIAL
CONSERVATIVES DO IN PUBLIC WHAT
THEY DO IN PRIVATE WHICH IS TO
DO A LOT OF WORK FOR THE POOR,
HEAL THE SOCIAL FABRIC, TIE TO
THE POOR, HEAL THE LONELY AND
REALLY ADDRESS SOME OF THE
ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL DISLOCATIONS
WE'RE SEEING IN THE COUNTRY.
THAT'S PART OF THE SOCIAL
CONSERVATIVE LIFE-STYLE BUT NOT
A PART OF THEIR PUBLIC MESSAGE
AND THAT'S BEEN A DISASTER FOR
THEY I THINK THE LIONS CHOICE
FROM THE BIBLICAL MOMENT OF VIEW
IS TO EMPHASIZE TO THE PUBLIC
THE KEY CULTURAL REVOLUTION WE
NEED NOW IS ONE TO REPAIR THE
SOCIAL FABRIC AND SOCIAL
REVOLUTION ON THE DEFINITION OF
MARRIAGE.
NO ONE'S ASKING ANYBODY TO
RENOUNCE THEM BUT SHOULD BE
SECOND ORDER OF BUSINESSES GIVEN
THE ACTUAL PROBLEM WE FACE
TODAY.
>> Woodruff: MARK, DO YOU
THINK THAT WHAT WE SAW ON THE
COURT COULD SOMEHOW PLAY OUT IN
THIS REPUBLICAN, IN REPUBLICAN
CONTEST FOR PRESIDENT.
>> YES, I THINK IT ALREADY IS
JUDY, TED CRUZ, CONSERVATIVE
SENATOR FROM THEE, CANDIDATE
FROM PRESIDENT HAS ALREADY
OFFERED A CONSTITUTIONAL
AMENDMENT THAT THE EIGHT YEAR
TERMS ON THE SUPREME COURT, THAT
THEY VOTE UP OR DOWN RETENTION.
INTERESTING PROPOSAL.
ONE BODY THAT WAS CONSISTENTLY
AND CONSCIOUSLY DESIGNED TO
AVOID POLITICS TO PUT IT RIGHT
INTO THE POLITICAL CAMPAIGN.
SO WE WILL BE HAVING TWO YEAR
LONG CAMPAIGNS BUT TO REMOVE
JUSTICES OR TO KEEP THEM ON THE
SUPREME COURT.
SCOTT WALKER ALREADY SAID HE'S
FOR CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT ON
SAME SEX MARRIAGE TO DEFINE
MARRIAGE BETWEEN ONE MAN AND ONE
WOMAN.
THE "WALL STREET JOURNAL"
EDITORIAL PAGE HAS GIVEN A GREEN
LIGHT BY CALLING JOHN ROBERTS
THE CHIEF JUSTICE COPY EDITOR
FOR NANCY ELOSI.
I THINK DAVID'S POINT IS VERY
GOOD ONE.
WHAT'S MOST INTERESTING TO ME IS
THE SUPREME COURT IS THE
UNDEMOCRATIC SUPREME COURT WHERE
POLICIES ARE ACTUALLY BEING
MADE, DECISIONS ARE BEING MADE.
THE DEMOCRATICALLY ELECTED
CONGRESS AND WHITEHOUSE, WE SEE
GRID LOCK, WE SEE PARALYSIS, WE
SEE VETOES AND LITTLE ACTION.
THE SUPREME COURT IS THE ONE
PLACE WHERE NATIONAL POLICY IS
BEING DECIDED.
NOT AS IT WAS INTENDED BUT IT'S
ACTUALLY HAPPENING.
>> Woodruff: DAVID, DO YOU
SEE THIS AFFECTING WHAT HAPPENS
IN CONGRESS?
>> WELL, I TAKE MARK'S POINT
VERY WELL.
FIRST OF ALL, THERE USED TO BE,
I'M TALKING ABOUT THE ACA RULING
THE SUPREME COURT HAS.
YOU PASS IT AS SOLUTION WOULD BE
UNEXPECTED.
SO YOU PASS A FOLLOW UP TO FIX
IT UP.
WE NO LONGER WORK IN FUNCTIONAL
WASHINGTON THAT DOES IT SO WE
RELY ON THE SUPREME COURT WHICH
IS WHAT THEY DID IN THIS
DECISION TO GO AGAINST THE
LETTER OF THE LAW AND TO FIX IT
UP.
SO IT'S THE DYSFUNCTION IN
CONGRESS HAS CREATED THE NEED
FOR THEM TO ESSENTIALLY STEP IN
AND PERFORM THAT ROLE.
AS FOR THE REPUBLICAN PARTY AS
MARK SAID IT'S INTERESTING TO
SEE ON ISSUE AFTER ISSUE, SOME
PEOPLE LIKE TED CUPS IT'S REALLY
VERY MUCH A BASE MOBILIZATION
CAMPAIGN.
AND ALMOST IN DEFIANCE OF ANY
REPUBLICAN EFFORT TO REACH OUT
BEYOND THE REPUBLICAN BASE.
AND OTHERS LIKE JEB BUSH AND
MARCO RUBIO RIGHT NOW ARE JUST
HANGING BACK, NOT DECLARING WAR
BUT EVENTUALLY THEY'LL SAY NO
WE'RE GOING TO OUTREACH AND THAT
WILL CAUSE SOME DISCOMFORT BUT
WE ARE GOING TO DO IT BECAUSE WE
WANT TO WIN THIS THING.
>> Woodruff: I WANT TO TURN
TO SOMEBODY WHO JUMPED INTO THE
REPUBLICAN FIELD THIS WEEK,
MARK, AND THAT IS NEW JERSEY
GOVERNOR CHRIS CHRISTY.
SOME PEOPLE HAD ALL BUT WRITTEN
HIM OFF THAT HE'S IN, HE'S
JUMPED IN AND HE SAID HE'S GOING
TO GO FROM DOOR TO DOOR IF HE
HAS TO, TO WIN OVER REPUBLICAN
VOTERS.
HOW DOES HE CHANGE THIS
REPUBLICAN FIELD?
I MEAN WE'VE GOT 14, 15, 16
PEOPLE RUNNING NOW.
>> WELL, IT'S PART OF THE, MY
JUDGMENT, A NATURAL TALENT,
CAMPAIGN TALENT.
HE'S GOT GRADE DRAW DUKES AND
CERTAIN PERSONALITY DISORDERS.
BUT HE SHA GREAT NATIONAL
TALENT.
POLITICS TO BE THE MOST ALL
HUMAN ACT WITH THE POSSIBLE
EXCEPTION OF POLITICAL
JOURNALISM.
HE'S FOLLOWING THE JOHN MCCAIN
PLAY BOOK FROM 2000 WHEN MCCAIN
HELD 114 TOWN MEETINGS IN NEW
HAMPSHIRE AND BY BEING THE
ESTABLISHMENT CHOICE JEB BUSH.
THE PROBLEM WITH CHRIS CHRISTIE
IS 65% OF NEW JERSEY VOTERS POLL
DO NOT THINK HE WOULD BE A GOOD
PRESIDENT.
HE'S FALLEN FROM GRACE.
TWO YEARS AGO HE WAS AT 73%
APPROVAL IN NEW JERSEY, WON A
SMASHING RE-ELECTION.
HE CARRIED WOMEN AND LATINO
VOTERS IN A BLUE STATE.
BUT JUDY, HE'S NOT WORN WELL.
THE GREAT STREAK OF BEING A
GOVERNOR TO RUN FOR PRESIDENT IS
YOU CAN SAY THIS IS WHAT I'VE
DONE.
I DON'T JUST MAKE SPEECHES AND
PRESS RELEASES.
THE DISADVANTAGE RUNNING FOR
PRESIDENT THE GORCHTION OTHER
PEOPLE CAN SAY THIS IS WHAT
YOU'VE DONE.
THERE'S MORE RESOURCING MIRACLE
FOR CHRIS CHRISTIE TO TALKER
ABOUT.
>> Woodruff: DAVID WHAT DO
YOU SEE CHRISTY BRINGS TO THIS
CONTEST.
>> I WOULD IMITATE MARK.
I THINK HE'S AN UNDER PRICED
STOCK.
JUST LOOK AT THE POLITICAL
TALENTS OF THE PEOPLE, OF THE
CANDIDATES.
HE HAS A LOT OF POLITICAL TALENT
HE'S GREAT AT FORMULATING
ISSUES.
AND MCCAIN DID THE TOWNHALL
THING AND I THINK CHRISTY HAS
THE TALENT TO JUST SEE A LOT OF
VOTERS IN NEW HAMPSHIRE.
THERE'S A LOT OF TIME.
AND I THINK IF HE PERFECT FORMS
AS WELL WE'LL SEE A RISE.
MARK POINTS OUT THAT HE'S THE
KIND OF DINNER GUEST AT THE
APPETIZER YOU'RE THRILLED AT
HAVING AT YOUR HOUSE BUT AT
DESSERT YOU WISH HE WOULD GET
THE HECK OUT OF THERE.
THERE'S THE ENDURANCE PROBLEM.
HE'S GOT TIME AND IF HE CAN
PERFORM WELL OVER TIME PEOPLE
WILL NOT GET EXHAUSTED BY HIM.
IF I WERE PICKING STOCKS HE
WOULD BE ONE I WOULD EXPECT TO
RUN.
>> Woodruff: HOW MUCH DOES IT
MATTER THAT HE'S NOT AS VIEWED
AS FAVORABLY IN HIS HOME STATE
AS HE USED TO BE.
>> TO ME, IT MATTERS A LITTLE.
MARK'S RIGHT, HE DOESN'T HAVE A
GREAT STORY TO TELL BUT FRANKLY
OTHER GOVERNORS HAVE RISEN TO
POWER ON THE STORIES OF FAKE
ECONOMIC MIRACLES.
I THINK IT WOULD HURT HIM
EVENTUALLY.
BUT WE'RE JUST NOW HOPING HE'S
EXPECTING TO GET TO THE TOP RUNG
OF CANDIDATES.
I DON'T THINK IT WILL HURT HIM
AMONG NEW HAMPSHIRE VOTERS FACE
TO FACE.
IT WILL HURT HIM IF HE EVER GETS
TO BE A BIG NATIONAL CONTENDER
THEN THE NEW JERSEY STORY WILL
GET MORE COVERAGE.
>> HE DID MENTION CHRIS CHRISTY
AND DESSERT WAS SORT OF A CHEAP
SHOT AT THOSE OF US WHO ARE
CHALLENGED.
>> Woodruff: MOVING ON.
ON THE DEMOCRATIC SIDE, MARK,
FORMER VIRGINIA SENATOR JIM WEBB
JUMPEDDED IN JOINING THREE
OTHERS WHO ARE CHALLENGING
HILLARY CLINTON.
ALONG WITH BERNIE SANDERS.
AND I WANT TO ASK YOU ABOUT
BERNIE SARDZ.
BUT WHAT DOES JIM WEBB BRING,
VIETNAM VETERAN SOMEONE WHO LEFT
THE SENATE.
>> JIM WEBB, 2002 THE WAR DRUMS
ARE BEATEN IN WASHINGTON BY THE
BUSH ADMINISTRATION IN CONGRESS
AND THE PRESS TO GO TO IRAQ.
AND JIM WEBB STANDS UP, A
SABBATH VET -- COMBAT VETERAN,
TWO BRONZE STARS, TWO PURPLE
HEARTS, CARRIED SHRAPNEL IN FROM
COMBAT AND WON.
HE SAID LEADERSHIP OF THIS
COUNTRY, IF YOU'RE SENDING
TROOPS INTO IRAQ, UNDERSTAND
THIS.
ARE YOU READY TO OCCUPY THE
MIDDLE EAST TERRITORY FOR THE
NEXT 30 TO 50 YEARS.
AND POINTED OUT PROPHETALLY
OCCUPYING FORCES YOU HAVE 50,000
FRIENDS AND IN IRAQ OCCUPYING IT
BECOMES 50,000 TERRORIST
TARGETS.
THIS IS A MAN WHO I THINK WHO
MIGHT BE OPPOSED, BARACK OBAMA
AND HILLARY CLINTON ARE GOING TO
LIBYA.
ONE TERM IN THE SENATE HE WAS
NOT A PARTICULARLY GIFTED
POLITICIAN AND NOT A GRIPPED
GUY, NOT VERY COLLEGIAL BUT HE
PASSED THE GI BILL OF RIGHTS.
BUT HE DOESN'T RAISE MONEY AND
IT'S A LONG SHOT BUT I HAVE TO
TELL YOU ON THAT DEBATE STAGE,
HE CAN STAND UP AND SAYING THIS
IS SOMEBODY WHO TRULY WAS RIGHT
FROM THE START.
>> Woodruff: HOW DO YOU SEE
THE EFFECT OF JIM WEBB IN THE
DEMOCRATIC FIELD DAVID.
>> I THINK HE'S PROBABLY THE
BEST NOVELIST EVER TO RUN FOR
PRESIDENT.
THINKING BACK ON OTHER NOVELISTS
WHO HAS DONE WELL.
HE GETS PROPS FOR THAT.
HE'S A JUXTA ZONIAN AND HE GOES
BACK TO THE TRADITION OF
AMERICAN POLITICS.
I DON'T THINK THAT'S WHERE THE
LIFE OF THE DEMOCRATIC PARTY IS
NOW.
THERE'S A SORT OFMAN U DE
TRITION OF THE REPUBLICAN AND --
I DON'T THINKS
ARE PARTICULARLY VIBRANT.
BERNIE SANDERS HAS THE ACTION
DRAWING HUGE ROUNDS AROUND THE
COUNTRY.
I GUESS HILLARY CLINTON IS
WONDERING ABOUT HER FEATURE
THREAT GOING TO COME FROM THE
BERNIE SANDERS DIRECTION.
FRANKLY I THINK SHE'S HELPING
FLAME THOSE DEBTS BY BEING SUCH
A PROVARIOUS CATER ON THE
POTENTIAL NUCLEAR DEAL AND OTHER
ISSUES.
IT'S BERNIE SANDERS IS WHERE THE
FIRE IS RIGHT NOW.
>> Woodruff: TOUGH LANGUAGE.
I NOTICED TODAY I THINK IN NEW
HAMPSHIRE HILLARY CLINTON
CLINTON SAYS SHE TAKES A BACK
SEAT TO NO ONE WHEN IT COMES TO
FIGHTING FOR PROGRESSIVE VALUES.
SO CLEARLY RESPONDING TO BERNIE
SANDERS.
ONLY A COUPLE MINUTES.
I WANT TO ASK YOU BOTH ABOUT
SOMETHING ELSE THAT'S COME UP
AND THAT IS COMMENTS THAT DONALD
TRUMP WHO ANNOUNCED A FEW DAYS
AGO HE'S RUNNING FOR PRESIDENT
HAS MADE ABOUT MEXICANS.
HERE'S A QUOTE FROM DONALD
TRUMP.
I LOVE THE MEXICAN PEOPLE BUT
YOU HAVE PEOPLE COMING THROUGH
THE BORDER THAT ARE FROM ALL
OVER AND THEY ARE BAD.
I'M TALKING ABOUT PEOPLE THAT
ARE FROM ALL OVER THAT ARE
KILLERS AND RAPISTS.
BIG REACTION, REMARK, ON THE
REPUBLICAN SIDE TO THIS.
WHAT DOES THIS MEAN FOR THE
REPUBLICAN FIELD, THE OTHER
CANDIDATES, THEIR COMMENTS
APPROPRIATE GIVEN WHAT DONALD
TRUMP IS SAYING.
>> I GUESS I DISAGREE WITH YOUR
QUESTION.
THERE HAS BEEN A BIG REACTION
FROM THE REPUBLICAN SIDE.
THEY WANT HIM TO GO AWAY.
AND WHEN THE LEADERSHIP OF THE
REPUBLICAN PARTY OF THE NATION
LEFT IN THE HANDS OF UNIVISION,
NBC AND MACY'S DEPARTMENT STORE
WHO OBJECTED AND SEVERAL
RELATIONS WITH DONALD TRUMP,
THIS HAS BEEN BAD FOR THE BRAND,
IT'S BAD FOR BUSINESS BUT IT'S
WORSE FOR THE REPUBLICAN PARTY,
IT'S WORSE FOR NATIONAL DEBATE.
THIS MAN'S GOING TO BE ON THE
STAGE AND HE'S A DISASTER FOR
THE REPUBLICANS.
IN ADDITION TO BEING A MESSAGE
OF DIVISION AND HATRED.
>> Woodruff: DAVID JUST 20
SECONDS.
>> IT'S AN ACTUAL CRUCIAL MOMENT
FOR THE REPUBLICAN PARTY.
THIS IS A SLUR, COMPLETELY
INCONTRACT SLUR IT'S CULTURAL
POLITICS OF THE WORST SORT.
IF HE CONDITIONED STAND UP
AGAINST THIS GUY THEY MAKE THE
OBVIOUS ACCURATE CASE THERE WILL
BE A LONG TERM TROUBLE WITH HAS
PANICS BECAUSE THEY'LL POLARIZE
THEMSELVES.
>> Woodruff: DO YOU THINK THE
OTHER CANDIDATES WILL SAY
ANYTHING ABOUT THIS.
>> NOT TED CRUZ SO FAR.
IT'S EVENTUAL THEY SAY
SOMETHING.
>> Woodruff: DAVID BROOKS AND
MARK SHIELDS WE THANK YOU.
ON SUNDAY NIGHT, THE U.S. HAS A
CHANCE TO WIN ITS FIRST WORLD
CUP SINCE 1999, WHEN THE
AMERICAN WOMEN SQUARE OFF
AGAINST JAPAN.
I SAT DOWN YESTERDAY WITH
CHRISTINE BRENNAN, SPORTS
COLUMNIST FOR "USA TODAY" AND
ABC COMMENTATOR, AND BRIANA
SCURRY, GOALKEEPER FOR THE U.S.
WOMEN'S TEAM WHO WON THE 1999
WORLD CUP.
WE TALKED ABOUT THE U.S. TEAM
AND THE GROWING INTEREST AFTER
THE U.S. DEFEATED GERMANY.
BRIANA, CHRISTINE, WELCOME TO
YOU BOTH.
SO BIG GAME SUNDAY NIGHT 7:00,
THE FINAL.
WHAT ARE WE LOOKING FOR,
CHRISTINE.
>> IT'S GOING TO BE A
FASCINATING REMATCH, REALLY, OF
THE 2011 GAME.
OF COURSE JAPAN BEAT THE U.S. AT
THE LAST WORLD CU.P
SO THE UNITED STATES WAWNTSD
NOTHING MORE JUDY THAN TO HAVE
REVENGE AND WIN THIS WORLD CUP.
I THINK THE U.S. IS ABLE TO DO
IT.
THE U.S. IS PLAYING AN AMAZING
BRAND OF SOCCER WHAT WE SAW THE
OTHER DAY.
JAPAN IS SO TACTICAL AND SO
ORGANIZED, YOU CAN'T COUNTED
THEM OUT.
BUT I THINK THE UNITED STATES
TEAM IS SAYING THIS IS THEIR
YEAR, THEY FEEL STRONGLY THIS IS
THE ONE THEY'RE GOING TO WIN AND
FINALLY AFTER 16 YEARS WIN THAT
WORLD CUP BACK.
>> BRIANA WHAT ARE YOU LOOKING
FOR.
>> I'M LOOKING FOR A FAN IT IS
RT AGREE WITH CHRISTINE THE U.S.
HAS BEEN WAITING FOUR YEARS TO
AVENGE THE LOSS SO HEART
BREAKING TO THEM IN JAPAN IN THE
201 1 WORLD CUP.
NOW THEY HAVE THIS OPPORTUNITY
AND BASICALLY A HOME FIELD
ADVANTAGE ESSENTIALLY IN CANADA
RIGHT NOW.
THEE BEEN SELLING OUT IN THE
STADIUMS THE USA HAS BEEN
PLAYING IN PREDOMINANTLY AUS
FANS.
NOW IS THE TIME.
I THINK JAPAN IS GOING TO PUT UP
A REALLY GOOD FIGHT, THEY ALWAYS
DO.
THEY'VE DONE WELL TO GET TO
POINT BUT I ALSO AGREE WITH
CHRIS DEAN THAT THE USA IS READY
AND THEY'RE NOT GOING TO TAKE
ANYTHING FOR GRANTED AND THEY'RE
GOING TO GET THE GLS.OA
>> Woodruff: LET'S TALK ABOUT
WHAT HAPPENED ON THE TUESDAY
NIGHT FINALS, CHRISTINE.
THE U.S. WAS PLAYING GERMANY AND
ONE OF THE GERMAN PLAYERS IN A
VERY MOMENT I THINK WHERE
EVERYBODY WAS HOLDING THEIR
BREATH.
HER HEAD HIT THE BACK OF THE
HEAD OF A U.S. PLAYER.
THEY BOTH WENT TO THE GROUND TO
LAY THERE FOR A WHILE.
THEN THEY GOT BACK UP AND WITHIN
A FEW MINUTES THEY WERE BACK IN
THE GAME.
SOME PEOPLE SAID THAT WASN'T
HANDLED WELL.
WHAT WERE YOU THINKING.
>>T I WAS NOT HANDLED WELL.
BRIANA IS AN EXPERT IN THIS AREA
AND I'LL DID HE EVER TO YOU
EXCEPT I'LL JUST SAY THEY HAVE
TO GET WITH THE PLAN HERE.
THE FACT THAT THE SOCCER
COMMUNITY HAS NOT FIGURED OUT
WHAT SO MANY EXPERTS IN THE
UNITED STATES HAVE AT LEAST
TRIED TO START TO FIGURE OUT
THAT YOU HAVE TO EVALUATE THIS
LONGER THAN A COUPLE MINUTES AND
CONSUGGESTS ARE SERIOUS AND YOU
NEED TO COME OUT OF THE GAME.
I ANYWAY BRI YOU HAVE A GREAT
SUGGESTION ABOUT THE FOURTH SUB
SO YOU WILL BE ABLE TO DO THAT
SO I WILL DEFER TO YOU.
>> Woodruff: SOMEONE WHO HAS
BEEN THROUGH SOMETHING LIKE THIS
YOUR.
>> MY CREW HAD A HEAD INJURY IN
THE GAME.
I HIT THE SIDE OF MY HEAD SO I
UNDERSTAND WHAT THAT MEANS AND
HOW HARD IT CAN BELIEVE.
I BELIEVE FIFA HAS AN
OPPORTUNITY TO MAKE REGARD TO H.
CHRISTINE SAID TWO MINUTES IS
NOT LONG ENOUGH I COMPLETELY
AGREE.
BUT I ALSO FEEL IT'S
MULTI-FACETED.
WHAT HAS TO HAPPEN IS I BELIEVE
PLAYERS SHOULD WEAR SOME SORT OF
PROTECTIVE HEAD GEAR.
I REALLY DO FEEL THAT.
SHIN GUARDS AT ONE POINT WERE
NOT MANDATORY NOW THEY'RE
MANDATORY.
I THINK WE CAN MOVE AHEAD AND
I'VE HEART NURD UP WITH UNHE CAN
A COMPANY THAT MAKES PROTECTIVE
HEAD GEAR.
THE SAME THAT ALLEY KREIGER IS
WEARING THROUGHOUT THIS ENTIRE
WORLD CUP.
I THINK IT'S BETTER WITH
SOMETHING LIKE THAT TO HELP
PROTECT THE PLAYERS IN
SITUATIONS LIKE YOU SAW AGAINST
GERMANY.
>> Woodruff: N THE HEAD GEAR,
CHRISTINE AND BRIANA, WHAT NEEDS
TO HAPPEN IN TERMS OF WHETHER
PLAYERS ARE ALLOWED TO GO BACK
IN OR NOT.
>> ON TWITTER THERE WAS THIS
IDEA THAT THERE ARE THREE SUBS.
EACH TEAM CAN PUT IN THREE SUBS.
ONCE YOU PUT IN SOMEONE YOU
CAN'T BRING THEM BACK OFF THE
BENCH.
SO IN THIS CASE IF YOU HAD A
FOURTH SUBSTITUTION SO THAT
THOSE TWO PLAYERS, THE GERMAN
PLAYER COULD HAVE BEEN BROUGHT
OFF THE FIELD, SWEATD AND
REPLACE THEM, THEY COULD COME
BACK IN IF THEY'RE HEALTHY.
IF NOT, THEY STAY ON THE BENCH,
YOU WOULD THEN BE ENCOURAGING
TEAMS AND THESE NATIONAL
FEDERALLATIONS TO BE SERIOUS
KNOWING THEY WON'T LOSE A
PLAYER.
>> Woodruff: THEY'RE TALKING
ABOUT HAVING AN INDEPENDENT
PHYSICIAN EXAMINE THEM WHICH IS
NOT THE CASE NOW.
>> THEY.
THEY HAVE DOCTORS QUALIFIED TO
MAKE THESE DECISIONS BUT THERE'S
A BIAS THERE.
PART OF THE PROCESS, THEY ASKED
THE PLAYER HOW THEY'RE DOING.
I UNDERSTAND YOU HAVE TO ASK THE
PATIENT HOW THEY ARE.
BUT YOU CAN'T ALLOW THAT PLAYER
TO HAVE TO MAKE THE DECISION.
I'M SORRY I PLAYED AT THAT LEVEL
THERE'S NO WAY I WOULD SAY I'M
NOT OF COURSE.
>> OF COURSE I WANT TO BE OUT
THERE AND DO MY BEST BUT YOU
HAVE TO PROTECT THEM AND THAT'S
NOT HAPPENING.
IT'S NOT HAPPENING ON THE MEN'S
SIDE IT'S NOT HAPPENING ON THE
WOMEN'S SIDE.
THEY USED TO DO A LOT OF THINGS
AND A FORCED SUBSTITUTION WOULD
BE ONE OF SEFERLZ OF SEVERAL
THINGS TO DO TO HELP US.
>> Woodruff: ONE OTHER QUICK
THING.
POPULARITY OF THE SPORT IS
GROWING.
YOU AND I WERE TALKING
CHRISTINE, MORE THAN 8 MILLION
PEOPLE IN THE U.S. WERE WATCHING
THE SEMI FINAL GAME TUESDAY
NIGHT.
>> THIS IS WONDERFUL NEWS.
FOR ME THIS TEAM HAS ALWAYS BEEN
FROM 99 ALL THE WAY THROUGH NOW
ABOUT GRATING ROLE MODELS FOR
GIRLS AND BOYS.
THEY HAVE BEEN ALMOST TO A WOMAN
JUST PERFECT ROLE MODELS.
AND ALL OF THESE WONDERFUL
PEOPLE THAT THEN GO ON AND LIVE
THEIR LIVES AS BRI HAS.
SO THE FACT THAT SO MANY PEOPLE
ARE WATCHING THIS, IT IS
NATIONALISM.
IT'S ABOUT CHEERING FOR YOUR
COUNTRY AND I THINK WE'RE GOING
TO SEE ANOTHER EXAMPLE OF THAT
SUNDAY IN A HUGE WAY WITH GREAT
TV RATINGS THAT SHOW US HOW MUCH
THE COUNTRY REALLY CARES ABOUT
OUR NATIONAL WOMEN'S SPORTS
TEAM.
>> Woodruff: DO YOU THINK IT
CHANGES THE GAME.
>> I THINK IT ADDS TO IT.
WITH THE INFLUX OF SOCIAL MEDIA,
YOU CAN ACTUALLY KNOW THE NAMES
OF THE PLAYERS PETS.
THAT'S SOMETHING YOU WOULDN'T
HAVE KNOWN BEFORE.
SO BECAUSE YOU UNDERSTAND THEM
PERSONALLY AND YOU KNOW THESE
THINGS ABOUT THEM, YOU FEEL LIKE
YOU KNOW THEM.
AND THAT'S WHY I THINK THERE'S
BEEN SUCH A RISE IN ACTIVITY AND
CURIOSITY AROUND THE WOMEN'S
GAME RIGHT NOW.
AND I THINK PEOPLE REALLY TRULY
DO KNOW THESE PLAYERS AS SOMEONE
WHO IS A FRIEND, YOU KNOW.
SO THAT MAKES A LOT OF
DIFFERENCE AND THAT HELPS THEM
CHEER THEM ON.
>> Woodruff: I KNOW WHAT I'M
GOING TO BE DOING SUNDAY NIGHT
AT 7:00, WATCHING THE WOMEN'S
FINALS.
BUT THANK YOU BOTH SO MUCH,
BRIANA SCURRY, CHRISTINE
BRENNAN, THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: ONE WEEK AGO TODAY,
PRESIDENT OBAMA GAVE THE EULOGY
FOR THE REVEREND CLEMENTA
PINCKNEY, ONE OF NINE PEOPLE
SHOT AND KILLED AT THE EMANUEL
A.M.E. CHURCH IN CHARLESTON,
SOUTH CAROLINA.
HIS REMARKS WERE HERALDED BY
MANY, IT WAS WHAT THE PRESIDENT
SANG THAT CAUSED MUCH COMMENT--
A SURPRISE RENDITION OF THE
SPIRITUAL, "AMAZING GRACE".
SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT JOHN
LARSON HAS A LOOK AT THE SONG'S
UNIQUE ROLE IN HISTORY.
>> Reporter: 34 MINUTES INTO A
EULOGY FOR ONE OF THE NINE
AFRICAN AMERICANS SLAIN IN A
HATE CRIME, THE FIRST AFRICAN
AMERICAN PRESIDENT TURNED TO
WHAT HE CALLED THE NATION'S
"RESERVOIR OF GOODNESS."
>> IF WE CAN FIND THAT GRACE,
ANYTHING IS POSSIBLE.
IF WE CAN TAP INTO GRACE,
EVERYTHING CAN CHANGE.
>> Reporter: AND THEN, A PAUSE.
AND JUST TWO WORDS.
>> AMAZING GRACE.
>> Reporter: WHAT CAME NEXT WAS
A LONG STRETCH OF SILENCE BEFORE
HE BEGAN.
>> AMAZING GRACE
HOW SWEET THE SOUND
THAT SAVED A WRETCH LIKE ME.
>> FOR ME, I HAD NEVER BEEN AS
PERSONALLY ENGAGED BY A
POLITICAL LEADER, AS I WAS IN
THAT MOMENT.
BECAUSE IT CONNECTED TO ME IN
WAYS THAT ARE, ARE REALLY HARD
TO, HARD TO PUT INTO WORDS.
>> AMAZING GRACE.
>> Reporter: THE REVEREND
WILLIAM H. LAMAR IV OF THE
METROPOLITAN A.M.E CHURCH IN
WASHINGTON, D.C., SAYS THAT'S
BECAUSE AMAZING GRACE IS
"THICK," AS HE CALLS IT, "WITH
HISTORY."
>> WHEN MY ANCESTORS SANG THAT
SONG, IT WAS THEIR AFFIRMATION
THAT THEY WOULD NOT BECOME LIKE
THOSE WHO WERE OPPRESSING THEM.
AND THAT THEY WOULD NOT EVEN
EXCLUDE GOD'S GRACE FROM THOSE
WHO WERE EXCLUDING GRACE FROM
THEM.
>> Reporter: AS PORTRAYED IN A
NEW SHOW ON BROADWAY, AMAZING
GRACE WAS WRITTEN BY AN
ENGLISHMAN AND PUBLISHED IN
1779.
BUT HERE'S THE IMPORTANT PART:
THE ENGLISHMAN, JOHN NEWTON, WAS
WHITE AND HAD BEEN A TRAFFICKER
OF BLACK SLAVES.
>> THE SONG STARTED AS A SERMON,
BY JOHN NEWTON, WHO YOU
EXPERIENCED A STORM AT SEA,
VOWED THAT IF HE LIVED THROUGH
THE STORM, HE WOULD DEDICATE HIS
LIFE TO GOD, AND THAT IS INDEED
WHAT HE DID.
>> Reporter: SARAH KAUFMAN IS A
PULITZER PRIZE WINNER AND DANCE
CRITIC FOR "THE WASHINGTON
POST."
SHE'S ABOUT TO RELEASE HER NEW
BOOK "THE ART OF GRACE."
SHE SAYS NEWTON HAD A RELIGIOUS
CONVERSION, BECAME A MINISTER
AND THEN AN ABOLITIONIST WORKING
>> THE SONG IS ALL ABOUT
VULNERABILITY.
IT EXPRESSES THE SENSE THAT WE
ARE SO WRETCHED, WE'RE SO
UNDESERVING AND YET, THIS LOVE
AND FORGIVENESS AND GRACE POURS
OUT TO US, FROM A HIGHER POWER.
>> Reporter: WHETHER IT'S THE
MELODY.
OR the MESSAGE.
IT TAPS INTO SOMETHING SHARED.
COMMON, YET EXTRAORDINARY.
>> WELL, IT'S THE SONG THAT IS
THE MOST INCLUSIVE OF ANY SONG I
KNOW FROM ANY PLACE IN THE
WORLD.
WHAT HE DID WAS TO DRAW US
TOGETHER.
THAT'S WHAT THAT SONG DOES.
IT PULLS US ALL TOGETHER.
>> Reporter: JUDY COLLINS SANG
IT IN THE STREETS WITH FANNIE
LOU HAMER DURING THE CIVIL
RIGHTS MOVEMENT.
>> I WAS IN, YOU KNOW
MISSISSIPPI WITH FANNY LOU
HAMMER IN 1964, SINGING "AMAZING
GRACE," TRYING TO GET PEOPLE TO
COME OUT OF THEIR HOUSES.
THEY WERE TERRIFIED TO GO OUT
AND VOTE, TERRIFIED, AND SHE'D
START SINGING AMAZING GRACE AND
PEOPLE WOULDN'T COME OUT OF
THEIR HOMES.
>> Reporter: IN 1970, COLLINS
RECORDED A SIMPLE VERSION, AND
IT BECAME A WORLD WIDE HIT.
SHE DIDN'T KNOW WITHIN FEW YEARS
THE SONG WOULD HELP SAVE HER--
FIRST FROM ADDICTION AND THEN
THE SUICIDE OF HER ONLY CHILD.
>> I LOVE IN THE VERSE ITSELF,
"WE'VE BEEN THERE TEN THOUSAND
YEARS, BRIGHT SHINING AS THE
SUN."
WE'VE ALWAYS BEEN HERE.
WE'VE ALWAYS BEEN IN THE SAME
DILEMMA.
>> Reporter: SAY THE WHOLE VERSE
FOR ME.
HOW DOES IT GO?
>> WHEN WE'VE BEEN THERE, TEN
THOUSAND YEARS.
BRIGHT SHINING AS THE SUN
WE NO LESS STATE TO SING GOD'S
PRAISE
AND WHERE WE FIRST BEGUN
>> Reporter: AND SO THIS WAS THE
SONG THE PRESIDENT CHOSE-- A
SONG CONCEIVED IN SUFFERING,
WHICH SOMEHOW HAS BECOME A
WORLDWIDE PRAYER FOR HEALING,
AND HOPE.
I'M JOHN LARSON, FOR THE PBS
NEWSHOUR.
>> Woodruff: NOW, THE LATEST
ADDITION TO THE NEWSHOUR
BOOKSHELF.
AS WE KNOW, THE REVOLUTIONARY
WAR SEVERED THE COLONIAL TIES TO
ENGLAND IN 1776.
BUT WHAT HAPPENED NEXT?
HISTORIAN JOSEPH ELLIS TAKES UP
THAT STORY IN HIS NEW BOOK, "THE
QUARTET: ORCHESTRATING THE
SECOND AMERICAN REVOLUTION,
1783-1789".
HE RECENTLY SAT DOWN WITH
JEFFREY BROWN.
>> 1780 IS KIND OF A DEAD ZONE A
BLACK HOLE.
WE WENT INTO INDEPENDENCE COME
TOGETHER AND A FEW YEARS LATER
WE COME TOGETHER AND CREATE THIS
NATION OR THIS NATIONAL
GOVERNMENT.
IN TRUTH, IT ALL SEEMS
INEVITABLE WHEN IN FACT
HISTORY'S ACTUALLY MOVING IN THE
OTHER DIRECTION IN THE 1780'S.
IT'S MOVING TOWARDS THE
EUROPEANIZATION OF NORTH
AMERICA.
>> Reporter: EVERYTHING ABOUT
THE REVOLUTION IN WAR WAS
PULLING AWAY FROM THE NOTION OF
A SINGLE UNITED STATES.
>> RIGHT.
WE HAD A COMMON IDENTITY AS
MEMBERS OF THE BRITISH EMPIRE.
THEN WE CAME TOGETHER
PROVISIONALLY AND TEMPORARILY TO
WIN THE WAR.
ALTHOUGH ABOUT A THIRD OF THE
PEOPLE WERE LOYALISTS.
AND WERE INDIFFERENT.
BUT ONCE THE WAR WAS OVER,
HISTORY'S HEADED AUTHORIZE A
DISSOLUTION OF THE UNITED STATES
AS A CO-HINTER WHOLE AND THE
TERM UNITED STATES IS A PLURAL
NOW.
THE UNITED STATES ARE NOT THE
UNITED STATES IS.
>> Reporter: SO TO GET TO IS
YOU HAVE THE QUARTET AS THE
TITLE, RIGHT.
GEORGE WASHINGTON, JAMES
MADISON, ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
JOHN JAY LESSER KNOWN.
IT'S THE TOP DOWN.
THIS IS AN ELITE GROUP.
>> IT IS AN ELITE GROUP.
THEY WOULD PREFER IT TO BE UP
FROM THE BOTTOM.
THERE ARE NO MOBS FORMING HERE
TO A CONSTITUTIONAL CONVENTION
OR A NATION STATE.
AND THERE ARE REASONS TO BE
SUSPICIOUS OF ANY KIND OF
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT BECAUSE AFTER
ALL, THAT'S WHAT THE PARLIAMENT
WAS.
>> Reporter: THEY GOT RID OF
THAT.
>> IT IS BUT IT'S DIFFERENT.
IN THE NEW GOVERNMENT YOU
ACTUALLY DO HAVE
REPRESENTATIVES.
YOU ELECT THEM, OKAY.
THE PARLIAMENT YOU DIDN'T GET TO
ELECT THEM.
BUT DOES IT REALLY COUNT IF YOU
SAY THE CONGRESS, YOU HAVE
30,000 PEOPLE REPRESENTED BY ONE
PERSON.
SOME PEOPLE DON'T FEEL THAT'S
REALLY THEYE GOING TO OPPOSE TH.
IN SOME SENSE I SEE THOSE WHO
OPPOSE THIS AS THE REAL
SPIRITUAL AND POLITICAL
ANCESTORS OF THE TEA PARTY.
PEOPLE THAT DISTRUST
GOVERNMENT.
FOR THEM GOVERNMENT IS THEM
RATHER THAN GOVERNMENT IS US.
>> Reporter: TAKES JOHN JAY,
WHAT DID HE DO.
>> JAY WAS THE AMERICAN
DELEGATE.
HE SAW TO IT THAT IN THE PEACE
NEGOTIATIONS WE ACQUIRE THE LAND
BETWEEN THE ALLEGHENIES AND THE
MISSISSIPPI.
IT TURNS OUT WE'RE GOING TOT
THE BRITISH EMPIRE NORTH
AMERICA.
THE BRITISH WANTED FROM THE
FRENCH, THE INDIANS OR NATIVE
AMERICANS ARE STILL THERE.
A HUNDRED THOUSAND OF THEM
LIVING BETWEEN THE ALLEGHENIES
AND THE MISSISSIPPI.
BUT THE UNITED STATES IS GOING
TO ACQUIRE AN EMPIRE AS A
CONSEQUENCE OF THE WAR AND IT'S
GOING TO MAKE IT EVEN MORE
NECESSARY THAT WE MOVE TO SOME
KIND OF COHERENT GOVERNMENT
THAT'S CAPABLE OF MANAGING THIS
HUGE LAND MASS.
>> Reporter: IF THEY WERE SO
HEROIC AND TRIUMPH FUND.
THERE WAS STILL CIVIL WAR.
>> THE DEEPER RESOLUTIONS WERE
AS A RESULT OF SLAVERY AND THE
NATIVE AMERICAN EXPERIENCE WERE
STRATEGIES THAT THE
N'NSTITUTIONAL CONVENTION DIDT
RESOLVE.
IT PAID OVER AND POSTPONED.
THERE WAS A SILENCE ON THE
SLAVERY QUESTION ON THE
CONSTITUTIONAL CONVENTION.
IT WAS THE GHOST AT THE BANQUET.
IF YOU TALKED ABOUT IT, IT RAN
THE RISK OF BLOWING THE ENTIRE
EXPERIMENT A A UP.
IF THEY HAD DONE IT THE
CONSTITUTIONAL CONVENTION WOULD
AVE BARELY SUCCEEDED AND FALLEN
BACK INTO A CONFEDERATION.
>> Reporter: YOU'RE LOOKING
BACK OF THESE ARGUMENTS OVER
FEDERALISM ON OUR PROGRAM EVERY
NIGHT WE'RE LOOKING AT SUPREME
COURT CASES THAT INVOLVE MANY OF
THE SAME ISSUES.
WHEN YOU LOOK AS AN HISTORIAN,
DOES IT FEEL LIKE ALL OF THESE
THINGS HAVE BEEN RESOLVED.
>> NO.
>> Reporter: NO.
IT'S A BIG BANG THEORY OF
AMERICAN HISTORY.
THIS IS THE EXPOSURE AND IT
KEEPS GOING OUT.
IT DOESN'T PROVIDE ANSWERS.
THE CONSTITUTION ONLY PROVIDES A
FRAME WORK IN WHICH THE ARGUMENT
CAN KEEP GOING ON.
BUT THE DEEPER ISSUE IS STATE
VERSUS FEDERAL SOVEREIGNTY IS
STILL WITH US.
NOW YOU WOULD THINK IT WAS
RESOLVED BY THE CIVIL WAR BUT IT
HASN'T.
AND I THINK THE GENIUS OF THE
CONSTITUTION CREATED BY THESE
GUYS, AND IT WAS IN PART
ACCIDENT BECAUSE IT WAS A SET OF
COMPROMISES WAS TO CREATE A
DOCUMENT THAT WAS A LIVING
DOCUMENT THAT DIDN'T ATTEMPT TO
PROVIDE ANSWERS.
THE ANSWERS WERE ARGUMENTS.
PEOPLE COULD CONTINUE TO
DISAGREE.
>> Reporter: YOU'VE BEEN
WRITING ABOUT THIS PERIOD FOR A
LONG TIME.
>> I KNOW.
I NEED TO GET A NEW TOPIC.
>> Reporter: I'M WONDERING IS
IT AN ENDLESS FASCINATION.
>> IT IS AND ENDLESS FASCINATION
THAT THIS IS THE MOTHER LOAD.
THIS IS THE PLACE WHERE THE
VALUES AND INSTITUTIONS THAT WE
CONTINUE TO LIVE WITH ARE ALL
CREATED.
>> Reporter: ALL RIGHT.
THE BOOK IS THE QUARTET, JOSEPH
ELLIS, THANKS SO MUCH.
>> PLEASURE.
>> Woodruff: ONE OF THE GREAT
INDEPENDENCE DAY TRADITIONS IS
THE CELEBRATION AND FIREWORKS
RIGHT HERE IN WASHINGTON ON THE
NATIONAL MALL, AND TOMORROW
NIGHT, PBS WILL SHOWCASE IT ONCE
AGAIN ON "A CAPITAL FOURTH."
IT'S THE 35TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE
PROGRAM AND WE HAVE A BEHIND-
THE-SCENES LOOK AT THE FATHER-
SON TEAM WHO PUT IT ALL
TOGETHER.
>> JOHN ADAMS SAID ON THE NIGHT
OF THE DECLARATION OF
INDEPENDENCE IT SHOULD BE
CELEBRATED EVERY YEAR WITH
FIREWORKS AND BON FIRES AND
PARTIES AND SPORTS.
AND THAT WAS 139 YEARS AGO.
WE'RE CONTINUING THAT TRADITION.
I'M THE EXECUTIVE PRODUCER OF
THE CAPITOL 4TH FOR THE LAST 235
YEARS.
>> MICHAEL KULBERG THE EXECUTIVE
PRODUCER AND SON OF JERRY
KULBERG.
>> THIS HAD BEGUN A SERIES OF
CONCERTS HERE AND I WENT TO THEM
AND WE WANTED TO DO A TELEVISION
SHOW FOR THE COUNTRY.
IT'S ONE YEAR AT A TIME.
I DIDN'T PLAN IT.
I DIDN'T HAVE ANY IDEA IT WOULD
GO ON THIS LONG.
>> NOW THE CAMERAS AND THE
EQUIPMENT.
WE COVER THE WHOLE MALL AND MAKE
IT INTO LIKE WORLD'S FAIR
EXPERIENCE.
>> THE GENERAL PUBLIC DOESN'T
UNDERSTAND HOW MUCH WORK IT IS.
IT'S A YEAR LONG PROCESS BY THE
TIME YOU COME UP WITH THE IDEAS,
HOOKING WITH STARS, DOING THE
PUBLICITY.
BUT ONCE WE GET TO THIS POINT
HERE AT THE CAPITOL THERE'S OVER
500 OF US, THE SYMPHONY,
WASHINGTON, THE MILITARY GROUPS,
THE PRODUCTION GROUPS, THE
STAFF, THE EVENTS STAFF.
IT'S A MAJOR UNDERTAKING.
>> WE'VE HAD SEVERAL HUGE RAIN
STORMS.
WE HAD ONE WITH THE POINTER
SISTERS WHERE WE HAD ONE INCH OF
RAIN IN A LITTLE OVER AN HOUR.
I SAID TO THEM LADIES I SAID
YOU'VE GOT TO SAVE THE SHOW.
I SAID YOU THINK YOU CAN DO IT.
THEYAID S DON'T YOU WORRY BIT
HONEY, WE'LL TAKE CARE OF IT.
THEY WENT OUT AND PUT ON A HECK
OF A SHOW.
EVERYBODY WAS UP SINGING AND
DANCING TOTALLY DRENCHED AND IT
SAVED THE DAY.
>> EVERYBODY'S AN AMERICAN,
LEFT, RIGHT, CENTER AND THEY ARE
ALL CELEBRATING OUR COUNTRY AND
I THINK THAT'S WONDERFUL
BY-PRODUCT OF THIS WHOLE EVENT.
>> TO BE ABLE TO BE HERE AND
FORGET OUR DIFFERENCES FOR 90
MINUTES ON THE 4TH OF JULY AND
TO CELEBRATE WHO WE ARE MAKES IT
PRETTY SPECIAL.
BUT AFTER WORKING SO MANY HOURS
WE REALLY DO APPRECIATE JULY,
DON'T WE.
>> Woodruff: THAT'S "A CAPITOL
FOURTH" TOMORROW NIGHT ON PBS.
CHECK YOUR LOCAL LISTINGS.
AND RIGHT HERE ON THE NEWSHOUR
ON MONDAY, WE ARE TAKING A
SPECIAL VISIT TO ONE LEGENDARY
BAND'S FINAL, FAREWELL
PERFORMANCE.
JEFFREY BROWN IN CHICAGO HAS A
PREVIEW.
>> Reporter: IT'S CALLED FARE
THEE WELL TO THE LEGENDARY ROCK
BAND THE GRATEFUL DEAD.
WE'LL HAVE A FULL REPORT ON THE
PROGRAM ON MONDAY NIGHT.
BUT STARTING TONIGHT DURING THE
CONCERT, YOU CAN FOLLOW US ON
FACEBOOK AND OTHER SOCIAL MEDIA.
>> Woodruff: ON THE NEWSHOUR
ONLINE RIGHT NOW, YOU MAY BE
PLANNING TO CATCH UP ON REST
THIS HOLIDAY WEEKEND, BUT A
WARNING: THERE ARE HEALTH
CONSEQUENCES TO CHANGING YOUR
SCHEDULE AND SLEEPING IN LATE.
AS PART OF OUR WORK-LIFE BALANCE
WEEK, HEAR FROM SCIENTISTS ABOUT
THE BEST WAY TO RECHARGE.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
SITE, pbs.org/newshour.
AND STICK AROUND THIS EVENING
HERE ON PBS FOR WASHINGTON WEEK
AND A ROUNDTABLE DISCUSSION OF
THE WEEK'S NEWS.
GWEN IFILL HAS A PREVIEW:
>> Ifill: ALL THREE BRANCHES
OF GOVERNMENT, THE EXECUTIVE,
JUDICIAL AND LEGISLATIVE LAWMPED
UP INTO THE SEMESTER WITH A
BANG.
AND NOW THE FOUL YACHT FOR
CONGRESS AND THE SUPREME COURT
AND FOR THE EVER GROWING
PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGN FIELD.
WE TAKE STOCK TONIGHT ON
WASHINGTON WEAK.
JUDY.
>> Woodruff: ON PBS NEWSHOUR
WEEKEND SATURDAY, JOHN LARSON
REPORTS FROM DELANO, CALIFORNIA,
ON HOW FARMERS ARE DEALING WITH
THE DROUGHT NOW ENTERING ITS
FOURTH YEAR.
AND THAT'S THE NEWSHOUR FOR
TONIGHT.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
HAVE A GREAT FOURTH OF JULY.
THANK YOU AND GOOD NIGHT.